Smart Electric Vehicle Charging station using Embedded SystemsSmart Electric Vehicle Charging station using Embedded Systems

Aug 2022 - May 2023Aug 2022 - May 2023

Associated with Acharya Institutes of Technology

The Project to be implemented here is a Smart EV Charging Station. As we know, electric vehicles (EVs) are being adopted at a rapid rate, necessitating the creation of a sophisticated charging infrastructure to support their widespread use. The design and installation of a Smart EV Charging Station (SECS), intended to address the issues with conventional charging stations, are presented in this project report. This project's main goals are to create an intelligent charging algorithm that can dynamically distribute available power capacity among a number of EVs, optimize charging schedules to reduce peak demand and energy costs, and provide a seamless user experience via smartphone applications or vehicle-to-infrastructure communication. In India, public charging stations are still not widely distributed, particularly in rural and nonmetropolitan areas. As a result, EV owners have less convenience and range confidence, which discourages adoption on a large scale.The Project to be implemented here is a Smart EV Charging Station. As we know, electric vehicles (EVs) are being adopted at a rapid rate, necessitating the creation of a sophisticated charging infrastructure to support their widespread use. The design and installation of a Smart EV Charging Station (SECS), intended to address the issues with conventional charging stations, are presented in this project report. This project's main goals are to create an intelligent charging algorithm that can dynamically distribute available power capacity among a number of EVs, optimize charging schedules to reduce peak demand and energy costs, and provide a seamless user experience via smartphone applications or vehicle-to-infrastructure communication. In India, public charging stations are still not widely distributed, particularly in rural and nonmetropolitan areas. As a result, EV owners have less convenience and range confidence, which discourages adoption on a large scale.

Skills: Problem Solving · Arduino IDE · C (Programming Language) · 8051 Microcontroller
